Large enough to enclose a small town, this high-ceilinged chamber rises above a network of bridges, stone towers, and sturdy walls carved from rock and sheathed in iron and mithral. Dozens of smaller chambers lead out from the Vault of Kings, including sprawling residential areas not yet filled by Gauntlgrym’s new occupants.

The vault is on the same level as the city’s main gates and can be reached from there, though a system of smaller gates and checkpoints has been set up to keep potential invaders from reaching as far as the throne room. That section of the vault, where the king spends a considerable amount of his time, is a large hall lined with pillars and benches, intended as a meeting place as much as a seat of rulership. The Great Throne of Moradin is protected by powerful magic, and forcefully ejects anyone but the rightful king who attempts to sit upon it. While so seated, Bruenor has advantage on all Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma checks — a divine blessing granted to the king of Gauntlgrym by Moradin and the other dwarven gods.

The majority of the city’s current inhabitants live and work within the vault, happy to share tales of the city’s reclamation and praise Bruenor’s leadership at any opportunity. This is where the characters reside as Bruenor’s guests, and where the representatives of the five factions are likely to be found. Here, residents and guests alike enjoy access to well-lit passages, comfortable quarters, and substantial amounts of food and drink.

The Vault of Kings is heavily patrolled and guarded by shield dwarf [veterans](https://www.dndbeyond.com/monsters/17045-veteran) traveling in squads of six. It is the safest part of the city, and the characters can probably depend upon its security enough to rest without interruption in one of the guest suites provided to them, barring any unusual occurrences (see “Events in Gauntlgrym”).